# Search Engine Cros-Platform (Inspired form VISION)

Cross-platform File Explorer and Search Engine for Multimedia.

# Features
- Full privacy. Data never leaves your machine.
- Text query-based search that accounts for:
    - visual aspects of images and videos based on [CLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/model_doc/clip) embeddings,
    - transcriptions that are automatically generated for audio and video files,
    - text that is automatically extracted from images,
    - descriptions generated by [DeepSeek LLM](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/Janus-Pro-1B) with vision capabilities (optional),
    - descriptions that you can manually write using GUI.
- Similarity search capabilities:
    - find images or videos similar to one of images from your directory,
    - find images similar to any image pasted from the clipboard,
    - find files with semantically similar metadata (descriptions, transcriptions or text extracted from image).
- Browser GUI that lets you easily use all of those search options, browse files and edit file metadata.
- Standalone program that depends only on ffmpeg. Project includes all the necessary database and search features.
- Works offline, can work with and without GPU.
- Works on Mac, Linux and Windows.
- Supports English and Polish languages.

## Intended use cases

Application was designed for directories containing up to 10k images, short (<5 minutes) videos and audio files. File names are assumed to be non-descriptive. Examples of such directories are:
- phone gallery or audio recordings copied to PC,
- data dumps from messaging apps like Messenger (Messenger built-in search works only for text messages, but they allow downloading all media, which can be searched using this app),
- saved memes.

